# Mobility Management
This file contains the discussion of how we chose the motors and servos used for the robot and implemented them into the robot, as well as how the vehicle chassis design was chosen and the assembly process of the vehicle

## Driving Mechanism

### Using Servos to turn the vehicle
During the planning and design phases, we decided as a team to create a back-wheel drive car, with the two front wheels used to steer the vehicle left and right, and the rear two wheels used to drive the vehicle forward and backwards. As a team, we decided to use a 180 degree 12 gram servo (MG90S) as part of the steering mechanism, as the servo was not only lightweight (12 grams), but because when 4.8V is supplied to the motor, assuming there is no load, the servo had a fast speed of 60 degrees for every 0.1 seconds, which is approximately 327 rpm (revolutions per minute). The servo also produces a torque of 1.8 kg.cm, which is approximately 0.1765 N.m (newton-meters). Thus, by using the following formula:
                                     
                                  power = speed (rpm) * 2π * torque (Nm) * efficiency (%)
                                              
Therefore, assuming 80% efficiency when the servo turns to the left and the right (since servo might have wear and tear and lose its efficiency over time, and since the servo is also attached to the axle and the wheels and has to turn the entire vehicle, which contributes to its load), we were able to derive the power generated by the servo as the servo turns the axle at a certain angle. From our calculations, we determined that since the servo turns 45 degrees when turning to the left of the right, it will take approximately 0.075 seconds (approximately 100.2 rpm) to turn to the left of the right. Thus, using the formula, the power generated by the servo is 88.9 W (watts) per turn, which is more than enough to power the servo to turn to the left and to the right, which allows the axle to turn the wheels to the left and right without encountering much difficulties turning the vehicle.

### Using Motors to drive the vehicl
We also decided to use a 5V (5 volt) DC (direct current) motor to drive the vehicle, as DC motors have an infinite turning range, thus being able to drive the vehicle for long durations. However, since the DC motors have a large operating voltage and current, we also used a H-bridge Motor Driver to drive the motors so that it will be able to drive the vehicle to move forwards and backwards, as without the driver, the motors would not be able to operate by only using a raspberry pi 4, since its operating voltage is higher than the output voltage which the raspberry pi 4 can provide to the motors.
uu
## Vehicle Chassis Assembly
### Step 1: Designing Phase
When designing the robot, we decided to go for our current design of the vehicle chassis, the 2WD robot chassis, made out of acrylic material, and purchased it online through an e-commerce platform, as it is lightweight (insert the weight of the chassis without any components) and we originally thought that the design was spacious enough for us to mount our components, which are the motors, servos, ultrasonic sensors and cameras, our microcontroller, the Raspberry Pi 4 and the power supplies, which are our 9V battery and power bank.

### Step 2: Vehicle Frame Assembly
When assembling the vehicle together, we considered the amount of space that we needed to the motors, servos, ultrasonic sensors and cameras, our microcontroller, the Raspberry Pi 4, the breadboard and the power supplies, which are our 9V battery and power bank. We realised that our current design would not be able to fit all the components together, and using a bigger chassis would exceed the competition limit of 30 by 20 cm of the vehicle chassis. Thus, to resolve the problem, we decided to have a second layer with the exact same design as the first layer and connected it together using screws, which will give enough space for the components to be mounted onto the vehicle chassis. We attached 2 screws at the front of the vehicle chassis, another 2 screws at the back of the vehicle chassis and finally 1 screw at the middle of the vehicle chassis, which will be able to support the weight of the components on the 2nd layer. 

### Step 3: Back-Wheel Designing and Assembly Process
*TODO: Add images for clarity*

The requirement of having both wheels driven by the same motor meant that the motor needed to be placed in the center of the robot. Having the wheels attached to the motor would require the wheels to be almost next to each other like dual wheels as the motor's built-in axle was very small, which would affect the robot's stability.

To separate the wheels, we had to print axles to extend the small axle of the motor. Since the motor's axle was very small in diameter too, the 3D printer was too imprecise to print a hole shaped like it, so we had to laser cut a gear that linked the motor's small axle and our larger axle. The wheels would then go on the end of the axles.

Our back wheels were initially the wheels that came with the kit. However, these wheels were meant to fit with the original small axle of the motor, and could not fit with our larger custom axle, so we designed and printed custom wheels. We made these wheels the same size as the original wheels in diameter (66mm).

To attach the wheels and the axle together, we used hot glue to ensure that they stick together for a long time. This also makes it less susceptible to wear and tear during testing as the wheels would not fall off as easily. We then attached the axle to the DC motor by 3D printing connectors of the same size as the axle so that the axle would fit snugly with the DC motor.

### Step 4: Front-Wheel Designing and Assembly Process
Since our robot was driven by only the back wheels, our front wheels had to be free-wheeling. We used ball bearings which fit in the center of the front wheels to let them spin freely and printed an axle to connect the wheels. This axle is rotated by a servo motor facing downwards to provide steering.

The ball bearings needed to be small enough to fit the front wheels which had the same size as the back wheels, 66mm in diameter, but they also could not be too small that the axle connecting the wheels would be too thin and weak to hold up the robot. We chose metal ball bearings with a 22mm outer diameter, 10mm inner diameter and 8mm in depth as an inexpensive ball bearing.

The axle was a 3d-printed cylinder with a diameter of 10mm to fit the ball bearing. Initially, it was 150mm in length, but testing revealed that this made the wheels too far apart and, when paired with the weight of the robot, could not be turned by our weak servo motor. To mitigate this, we shrunk the axle to be 100mm in length to decrease the required moment needed to turn the wheels and bought a stronger servo.

Finally, we hot glued the axle to the servo mechanism such that when the servo turns, the axle would turn as well, allowing the robot to steer in different directions when encountering obstacles.


### Step 5: Final Vehicle Assembly (Mounting components onto the vehicle)
Additionally, we also decided to place the ultrasonic sensors, H-bridge motor driver, the powerbank and the 9V battery on the first layer (bottom) and the raspberry pi 4, breadboard and camera on the second layer (top). We also decided to place the servo and motor at the bottom of the vehicle, with the servo attached to our 3D-printed axle and wheels, and the motor attached to another custom-made 3D-printed axle and wheels. (Refer to the Mechanical Diagram of the Vehicle). We utilised the mini holes in our vehicle chassis to organise our wires within the slots which would make it easier to troubleshoot and move components within the vehicle, and used cable ties to tie our wires together which would allow the wires not to be dangling when the vehicle was moving.

### Vehicle Assembly Considerations
A consideration we took when assembling the vehicle together was the weight of each component. An example of this is how we decided to place our powerbank in the first layer in the middle of the vehicle since that was where the vehicle's center of gravity lies at and because we did not want to shift the vehicle's center of gravity. We then distributed the remaining components evenly to balance the weight. Another consideration we took was the function and purpose of each component. For instance, we placed the ultrasonic sensors on the first layer in order to detect if there were any walls in the surroundings and for the parking. Moreover, we also placed the camera on the second layer as we wanted it to detect for the objects around it and the lines more effectively, since it will have a better view of its surroundings compared to when it is placed in the first layer. 
